# GraphQL Foundation Marketing Committee



### Attendees
* Lee Byron, GraphQL
* Elise Greve, AWS
* Eli Staykova, Apollo GraphQL
* Uri Goldshtein, The Guild
* Brian Warner, The Linux Foundation

### Agenda

1. Spec release
  - What do we need to prepare?
  - Where will we announce it?
2. Annual report
  - What can we do to get better participation?
3. Do we want to start migrating from foundation.graphql.org to graphql.org

## Spec release

Discussion began on preparing for the upcoming spec release, which is planned around the end of February. Lee noted that he would like to see a coordinated effort to publish tweets and blog posts so there's a wide range of content that connects it all together. The goal is to have content from contributors as opposed to coming from the committee.

Elise recommended ensuring we have a contributor point of view. Lee recommended proactive outreach. He noted that people who submit major changes are somewhat prepared already, because they're asked to write a blog post when they contribute. The goal of the blog post is to focus on why the change is needed. He noted the goal is to get these published in realtime as they're added.

Lee also noted that many people follow along with the live spec, as opposed to the released spec. As such, the release is less a grand reveal than a celebration of the changes that happened over the past 18 months. He noted we can create a list of posts that have already been written, and then figure out if there's a gap. Elise noted this can also help inspire others to get involved.

Brian asked if we know where there are gaps in coverage. Lee noted that it's still a work in progress, but there probably aren't that many gaps. He will know more once he's gathered the changelog. He noted it could be interesting to focus on the resolution of subtle ambiguities. These changes don't necessarily unlock a new thing, but they require a lot of work. This is an area that could use some attention because it's essential without being otherwise flashy, and could result in interesting stories.

What are the steps between now and the release?

* Create a tracking document for topics (Lee creating a change log, Brian will own tracking document)
* Identify the topics and the best author (Lee and Uri)
* Create a marketing point of contact for ensuring the topic is closed out
* Collect the links
  * Any platform is ok, but we can offer space on the foundation site.

Elise asked if we should suggest people volunteer their own unique stories? She noted there may be some things we aren't even aware of. Lee noted that this lines up exactly, and that this should be a topic in the next working group meeting. Uri suggested we can also ask people to highlight specific sections. Most non-contributors wouldn't read dig into specific sections without prompting.

**Action:** Brian to add topic to the Working Group agenda:

* What sorts of things we want people to submit:
  * Uri recommends soliciting content on specific sections that may not get a lot of attention
  * Elise recommends community perspectives, their unique point of view on GraphQL, how they use the spec and the community
* Submit by sending to Brian to post on Foundation blog, or publish it yourself and send the link to operations@graphql.org
* Where it would be used:
  * Narrative around the spec release, the annual report, social media, graphql websites)

Ideas on how to use the content:

* One centralized blog post from Lee as ED
* Series of tweets and smaller posts that link off to content
* Should use a few platforms (Facebook GraphQL group, Twitter, LinkedIn)
* Short summary for LF Newsletter
* Jason Perlow to write a narrative about GraphQL since contribution to the Foundation

## Annual report

Brian reviewed the 2019 annual report. He noted this is a good source of content, but he needs help following up to get people to contribute. Consensus on splitting up the membership list and pursuing content contributions.

**Action:** Brian to split up the membership list and provide a list of contacts in a tracking document so we can collect and assemble the content.

**Action:** Create draft in Google Doc so we can drop in content.

**Action:** Draft the ED report

## Consolidating website

Brian next noted that GraphQL has two separate sites, graphql.org and foundation.graphql.org. He noted that he'd like to see about merging the two. Elise noted that if they have parallel purposes, it's probably better to just have one.
